# Reproducible Models for AI Projects w/ DVC

When working in analytical projects, it will get more complex over time – it will. Suddenly it will get overwhelming to keep track of your AI models, its alterations of Hyper Parameters, input data & performance metrics – and the combination of such. Usually starting w/ one simple Use Case, adding some data, models and people, AI projects certainly will get harder to track – maybe you’ll get a bit lost. Is your latest version of all input parameters optimal? Was it better yesterday, last week or a long time before? How well was my model one, two months ago? Your AI project will get more complex – this is as safe as death & taxes.

Like we naturally version our code in Git – no questions asked. No one questions versioning code – but way fewer teams version their entire AI pipeline in an easy-to-reproduce manner. Maturing solution components & more complex AI projects will change that. There is beauty in versioning your entire AI pipeline end to end.
Git evolved 14 years ago and is now the state of the art version control system in software development. In Data Science projects we not only work together on a shared codebase, but rather on data files as well. With DVC (Data Versioning Control) we can keep track of changes in data files, configuration parameters, the entire pipeline, etc. in the same way we do it with code. Additionally, some machine learning related features that can lighten the development workflow.

We want to show you the benefits of applying DVC to your current or next AI project. Using DVC, you have all the insights about your model histories, may get back & forth in time to tinker w/ elder or later states of your models, Hyper Parameters, pipeline composition & data. Additionally, DVC solves the question how to distribute data across your AI team members – from tiny one-person teams (sic) to larger ones; from locally to Cloud-based…
We find, DVC is a neat and handy tool which might also help you in your journey towards Delivery Excellence.“
